Hi, I am Matt Ripley.
I am the vice principal here
at Marshview Middle School.
And I'm going to talk a little bit
about students reporting on behavior.
Which can be a tricky topic
in middle school.
You know, we know that students,
as they progress, it becomes,
harder and harder to tell teachers,
what what's happening?
You know,
students want to become more independent
and they want to solve problems on their
on their own.
And also, the role of peers becomes
more important as they progress through.
So it kind of gets tricky.
They don't want to be seen as,
as a rat or a tattletale or somebody who's
who, who's telling,
because that can kind of escalate
a problem
rather than fix it in their eyes.
So to do that, you know, we really do
work on building relationships early.
We want to make sure that the kids
feel safe to come to us.
Right.
And sometimes that means
having an explicit conversation with them.
Hey, I know that was hard, you know,
and I'm not sure
how you want me to help you,
because I don't want to make the problem
worse. What would you like me to do?
How would you like me
to support you in this problem?
Would you like me
to talk to the other student?
Do you just want me to listen?
And that really gives them
some guidance, right?
If they don't want to be seen
as somebody who's telling or or tattling,
then we can kind of support them
through that, and we can show discretion,
but we can still deal with the problem,
you know?
And sometimes if a problem needs
to be dealt with, we absolutely will.
Right.
And we'll do that as, as, as best we can.
But to make sure that we do have a safe
space for students to report, that's
that's really important here.
In middle school, we always want to foster
a growth mindset.
All students are going to make mistakes.
We have brains that are under development
and sometimes we react out of emotions.
And if students can understand that, hey,
sometimes I react out of anger
or fear or sadness
and I say something or do something that
might be a little bit out of character.
If students can see that in themselves,
then they can start
to see that
maybe other people do that too, right?
And if you see that, hey, you know,
even though this is my friend
and we had this problem,
maybe these people,
maybe they weren't
acting out of their best selves.
Maybe they
they they really did make a mistake.
And then we can start to kind of see through that and then start to grow and heal.
Something else we do
here is, alternative alternatives
to suspension.
You know, we want to avoid sending kids
home as a disciplinary measurement.
Sometimes it takes a day to reset.
But it's really important
for us to get them back in here.
And sometimes that means they're not
with the classroom for a little while.
They might be in, in school intervention,
where they're working on
skill building, whatever skill is lagging,
whatever skill that they could use
to support them
with whatever the problem is,
that's what we'll focus
and that's what we'll target on.
And we can do that here.
So we're we are learning
from our mistakes.
Any mistake that students make here
is an opportunity to grow.
And sometimes that mistake is behavior.
Sometimes it's
it's about emotional regulation.
Sometimes it's about,
you know, not recognizing,
something important in a friendship
and taking that for granted.
But any one of these mistakes
we can learn from,
and we want to give kids an opportunity
to do that and to grow,
honestly, it's a better conversation
with parents, too.
You know, if I call a family and say, hey,
I have to send your kid home for three
days, they're suspended.
That's not going to go well.
But if we say, hey,
your child showed these behaviors
and we'd love to work with them on that.
So, we're going to take some time
and we're going to build those skills
with them.
And at the same time, we'll be able
to keep them up to date on the work
so they won't miss anything. Right?
That's always a much better conversation.
And I think the kids see that too.
They want a chance to fix things.
They want a chance to grow.
They don't want to be sent away.
They want to feel that even
if they make a mistake, they still belong.
And they still matter.